Refactor ManifoldsBase to a two-level dispatch design (#91)
JuliaManifolds/ManifoldsBase.jl: README.md

The project [`Manifolds.jl`](https://github.com/JuliaManifolds/Manifolds.jl)
is based on this interface and provides a variety of manifolds.

## Main types

This packages provides an  [`AbstractManifold`](https://juliamanifolds.github.io/Manifolds.jl/stable/interface.html#ManifoldsBase.AbstractManifold) type, that is parametrized by its field, i.e., whether elements on the manifold are real (`ℝ`) or complex (`ℂ`) or even quaternions (`ℍ`).
A manifold is a set of points. These are usually represented by (real-, complex-, quarternion-) valued arrays, most prominently matrices.
Sometimes they are also vectors or tensors.
For more advanced points, you can also use subtypes [`AbstractManifoldPoint`](https://juliamanifolds.github.io/Manifolds.jl/latest/interface.html#ManifoldsBase.AbstractManifoldPoint).
Sometimes points on a manifold can be represented in different forms.
While a first (default) representation can use just arrays, any further representation _must_ use a subtype to dispatch on. Then the default case can (and should) also have a default subtype that just unwrapps to the internal vallue (see [`@default_manifold_fallbacks`]()).

## Interface design

> The interface for a manifold is defined to be as generic as possible, such that applications can be implemented as independent as possible from an actual manifold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The interface for a manifold is defined to be as generic as possible, such that applications can be implemented as independently as possible from an actual manifold.
```

This way, algorithms like those from [`Manopt.jl`](https://manoptjl.org) can be implemented on _arbitrary_ manifolds.

> The main design criteria for the interface are
> 
> * aims to also provide _efficient_ and _inplace_ computations whenever possible.
> * provide a high level interface that is easy to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main design criteria for the interface are:

* Aims to also provide _efficient_ _global state-free_, both _in-place_ and _out-of-place_ computations whenever possible.
* Provide a high level interface that is easy to use.
```

Therefore this interface has 3 main features, that we will explain using two (related)

> concepts, the [exponential map](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exponential_map_(Riemannian_geometry)) that maps a tangent vector ``X`` at a point ``p`` to a point ``p`` or mathematically ``\exp_p;:T_p\mathcal M \to \mathcal M`` and its generalisation, a [retraction]() ``\operatorname{retr}_p`` with same domain and range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
concepts, the [exponential map](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exponential_map_(Riemannian_geometry)) that maps a tangent vector ``X`` at a point ``p`` to a point ``q`` or mathematically ``\exp_p:T_p\mathcal M \to \mathcal M`` and its generalisation, a [retraction]() ``\operatorname{retr}_p`` with same domain and range.
```
Usually it maps to a different point :wink: .

Author: Ah, well seen, yes that of course should have been a q.

> You do not need to know their exact definition at this point, just that there is _one_ exponential map on a Riemannian manifold, and several retractions, where one of them is the exponential map (sometime called exponential retraction for completeness). Every retraction has its own subtype of the {`AbstractRetractionMethod`]() that uniquely defines it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You do not need to know their exact definition at this point, just that there is _one_ exponential map on a Riemannian manifold, and several retractions, where one of them is the exponential map (sometime called exponential retraction for completeness). Every retraction has its own subtype of the [`AbstractRetractionMethod`]() that uniquely defines it.
```

The following three design patterns aim to fulfill the criteria from above, while
also avoiding ambioguities in multiple dispatch using the [dispatch on one argument at a time](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/methods/#Dispatch-on-one-argument-at-a-time) approach.

### General order of parameters

Since the central element for functions on a manifold is the manifold itself, it should always be the first parameter, even for mutating functions.

### Mutating and allocating functions

Every function, where this is applicable should provide a mutating and an allocating variant.
For example for the exponential map `exp(M,p,x)` returns a _new_ point `q` where the result is computed in.
On the other hand `exp!(M, q, p, X)` computes the result in place of `q`, where the design of the implementation

> should keep in mind that also `exp!(M,p,p,X)` should be possible without side effects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
should keep in mind that also `exp!(M,p,p,X)` should correctly overwrite `p`.
```

The interface provides a way to determine the allocation type and a result (see [`allocate_result`]()) to compute/allocate
the resulting memory, such that the default implementation allocating functions, like `exp` is to allocate the resulting memory and call `exp!`.

!!! note
   it might be useful to provide two distinct implementations, for example when using AD schemes.

>    The default is meant for ease of use (concerning implementation), since then one has to implement the mutating variants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The default is meant for ease of use (concerning implementation), since then one has to just implement the mutating variants.
```

1. the exponential map usually has a long form, where one can specify a fraction (of `X`) where the evaluation should be. This is generically impülemented a

  ```julia
    exp(M::AbstractManifold, p, X, t::Real) = exp(M, p, t * X)
  ```

  On this level neither the manifold _nor_ the points should be too strictly typed, points and vectors should – for best of cases – never be types.

2. for the retraction, a default retraction (usually exp) is specified/defined via [`default_retraction_method`]().
  This also means, that the last parameter of

  ```julia
  retract(M::AbstractManifold, p, X, ::AbstractRetractionMethod=default_retraction_method(M))
  ```

  is optional and for a concrete type the dispatch on a certain retraction is done next.
  To avoid ambiguities, this concrete type should always be the first argument we dispatch on:
  The `ExponentialRetractionMethod` calls `exp`, any other retraction calls a function of different name without this last parameter,
  for example the `PolarRetractionMethod` by default calls `retract_polar(M,p,X)`, which is actualy a function from the lower level, see next section.

### The lower level interface – performance

> This lower level aims for performance, that is, any function should have as less as possible optional and keyword arguments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This lower level aims for performance, that is, any function should have as few as possible optional and keyword arguments
```
Optional arguments aren't really related to performance, it's more a matter of placing defaults in a higher level of the interface.

and be typed as concrete as possible/necessary. This means

* the function name should be similar to its high level parent (for example `retract` and `retract_polar`from above)

> * The manifold should always be a concrete manifold

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The manifold type in method signature should always be as narrow as possible.
```
The original wording may be confusing because there are concrete types in Julia and that's not what is meant here (f.e. `Euclidean` is not a concrete type but a perfectly fine argument type for a method).

* the points/vectors should either be untyped (for the default representation of if there is only one) or provide all types concretely.

> A first thing to do on this level is the aforementioned default to pass from allocating to mutating functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first thing to do on this level is the aforementioned default to pass from allocating to mutating functions.
```
I'm not quite sure, it's one of the things to do here but I can imagine someone wanting to do something else first.

> (TODO/Discuss - dispatch for decorators here instead of with the current/modular decorator pattern).

Reviewer: Shouldn't dispatch over decorators be a part of the higher-level interface?

Author: Yes, or a middle layer in between, that is exactly where I am not yet sure - i.e. whether to first resolve the Retraction-default or first dispatch on the decorator.

But sure, in this area and (instead of the abstract types) Traits.
For the concrete ones the same as before (to distinguish different embeddins, more than the default with trait).

Reviewer: Forwarding through decorators first seems to me like a good idea. Going from i.e. `retract` to `retract_polar` is moving into the lower level so I think transparent decorators should already be unwrapped at that point. Allocating-to-mutating default behavior should be more down the line than decorators because some manifolds need to override the allocation pattern (for example `Circle`).

Anyway, bases are much more complex than retractions and should perhaps get the most attention here.

Author: Sure, that is why I started with retractions, to first get used to the new ideas - will even do vector transports before I go over to bases.
